Tart Ultraviolet Kitten

high

# Incorrect enforcement of bottom-up resolution leads to unresolvable claims

## Summary

Incorrect enforcement of bottom-up resolution leads to unresolvable claims.

## Vulnerability Detail

When the dispute game ends, claims are resolved from the bottom-up, to ensure challenges are properly settled. When resolving a claim, it is verified that no challenger of that claim has it's own challenges. Otherwise, we view any non-countered challenges of the current claim as legitimate.

```solidity
for (uint256 i = 0; i < challengeIndicesLen; ++i) {
    uint256 challengeIndex = challengeIndices[i];
    // INVARIANT: Cannot resolve a subgame containing an unresolved claim
    if (subgames[challengeIndex].length != 0) revert OutOfOrderResolution();
    ClaimData storage claim = claimData[challengeIndex];
    // If the child subgame is uncountered and further left than the current left-most counter,
    // update the parent subgame's `countered` address and the current `leftmostCounter`.
    // The left-most correct counter is preferred in bond payouts in order to discourage attackers
    // from countering invalid subgame roots via an invalid defense position. As such positions
    // cannot be correctly countered.
    // Note that correctly positioned defense, but invalid claimes can still be successfully countered.
    if (claim.counteredBy == address(0) && leftmostCounter.raw() > claim.position.raw()) {
        countered = claim.claimant;
        leftmostCounter = claim.position;
    }
}
```

Another requirement in order to resolve claims is that the game must still be in progress:
`if (status != GameStatus.IN_PROGRESS) revert GameNotInProgress();`

An issue occurs because although the game resolution logic is sound in this case, the state management allows a situation where a claim that has not been resolved yet will *never* be resolvable. Consider the situation below:

`Claim B -> Claim A`

Claim A is the root claim and claim B counters it. When the game timer ends for A, it can be resolved (there are no subgames for claim B). However, since A is the root, `resolve()` can now be called, which changes the status of the game to CHALLENGER_WINS. However, now `resolveClaim()` can never be called for B (the in progress check will fail).

As a result, the bond for claim B cannot be claimed, leading to loss of funds of the honest claimer.

## Impact

An honest participant may lose their bond.

## Code Snippet

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Two options:
- Allow resolutions to take place not during the game runtime
- Require that all child claims have been resolved before resolving the root.