Flat Fleece Snail

medium

# Withdrawal finalization can fail if `proveWithdrawalTransaction` is called in the same block as dispute game creation.

## Summary

Withdrawal finalization can fail if `proveWithdrawalTransaction` is called in the same block as dispute game creation.

## Vulnerability Detail

Withdrawal finalization can fail if `proveWithdrawalTransaction` is called in the same block as dispute game creation.

When proving and finalizing a withdrawal transaction, the process is as follows: 
- Step 1) Firstly, a dispute game is created by the user, with the root claim that must match the hash of the output root proof related to a withdrawal.
- Step 2) Secondly, `proveWithdrawalTransaction` must be called with the dispute game ID, it is **important** to note that the dispute game need not be resolved yet, it is only needs to be resolved during finalization.
- Step 3) After some time after the dispute game is resolved and the `proveWithdrawalTransaction` is called, the withdrawal is finalized.

If Step 1 and 2 occur in the same transaction or block, then it is possible for a withdrawal finalization to fail due to a faulty `require` check. This is not far-fetched considering Optimism / user might want to perform both in a same transaction to perform less transactions and save gas costs and more importantly, they would want the PROOF_MATURITY_DELAY_SECONDS and DISPUTE_GAME_FINALITY_DELAY_SECONDS to elapse concurrently

Here is why:

When a dispute game is created, the `createdAt` is updated to `block.timestamp`.

[FaultDisputeGame.sol#L513-L575](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/dispute/FaultDisputeGame.sol#L513-L575)
```solidity
    function initialize() public payable virtual {
        ...
        // Set the game's starting timestamp
        createdAt = Timestamp.wrap(uint64(block.timestamp));
        ...
    }
```
When `proveWithdrawalTransaction` is called, it will store a new  `provenWithdrawal` with the `timestamp` set to `block.timestamp`

[OptimismPortal2.sol#L242-L325](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L1/OptimismPortal2.sol#L242-L325)
```solidity
    function proveWithdrawalTransaction(
        Types.WithdrawalTransaction memory _tx,
        uint256 _disputeGameIndex,
        Types.OutputRootProof calldata _outputRootProof,
        bytes[] calldata _withdrawalProof
    )
        external
        whenNotPaused
    {
        ...
        // Designate the withdrawalHash as proven by storing the `disputeGameProxy` & `timestamp` in the
        // `provenWithdrawals` mapping. A `withdrawalHash` can only be proven once unless the dispute game it proved
        // against resolves against the favor of the root claim.
        provenWithdrawals[withdrawalHash][msg.sender] =
            ProvenWithdrawal({ disputeGameProxy: gameProxy, timestamp: uint64(block.timestamp) });
        ...
    }
```

Now, the issue at hand arises because of a faulty check in `checkWithdrawal` which checks the status of the `provenWithdrawal` struct in `finalizeWithdrawalTransaction` function

[OptimismPortal2.sol#L458-L482](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L1/OptimismPortal2.sol#L458-L482)
```solidity
    function checkWithdrawal(bytes32 _withdrawalHash, address _proofSubmitter) public view {
        ...
        // As a sanity check, we make sure that the proven withdrawal's timestamp is greater than
        // starting timestamp inside the Dispute Game. Not strictly necessary but extra layer of
        // safety against weird bugs in the proving step.
=>      require(
            provenWithdrawal.timestamp > createdAt,
            "OptimismPortal: withdrawal timestamp less than dispute game creation timestamp"
        );
```

The `require` check essentially means that the dispute game must be created on a later block than when `proveWithdrawalTransaction`. But if the withdrawal is proved at the same time as the dispute game creation, then it will cause a revert.

The result is the withdrawal finalization can fail if `proveWithdrawalTransaction` is called in the same block as dispute game creation and the withdrawal will be temporarily bricked until another prover calls `proveWithdrawalTransaction` using the same dispute game, which will cause an additional delay, because the user has to wait for `PROOF_MATURITY_DELAY_SECONDS` which has an impact on the value of user's funds.

## Impact

Withdrawal finalization can fail if `proveWithdrawalTransaction` is called in the same block as dispute game creation and the withdrawal will be temporarily bricked until another prover reproves using the same dispute game, which will cause an additional delay, because the user has to wait for `PROOF_MATURITY_DELAY_SECONDS` which has an impact on the value of user's funds.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L1/OptimismPortal2.sol#L458-L482

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

`provenWithdrawal.timestamp >= createdAt` in the `require` check.