Helpful Lead Otter

medium

# The `OptimismPortal2.respectedGameType` storage variable will not be initialized, potentially leading to the inoperable state of the `OptimismPortal` after the upgrade

## Summary
The current implementation of the `OptimismPortal2` assumes that the `respectedGameType` will be initialized in the constructor. However, the `respectedGameType` is not immutable and can be initialized only within the `initializer` function, since the `OptimismPortal` contract is a proxy. If the expected value of the `respectedGameType` is not zero, the uninitialized value will render the L2-L1 withdrawals functionality inoperable until the guardian sets the correct value.

## Vulnerability Detail
The `OptimismPortal2` contract utilizes the `respectedGameType` to determine if this particular game can be used to prove the withdrawal. For proper functionality, this value should be synchronized with the `DisputeGameFactory`, meaning that the `DisputeGameFactory` should have an active implementation for this game type. If this is not the case, the attempt to call the `OptimismPortal2.proveWithdrawalTransaction` will revert due to this check:
```solidity
// The game type of the dispute game must be the respected game type.
require(gameType.raw() == respectedGameType.raw(), "OptimismPortal: invalid game type");
```
The issue arises from the fact that the current implementation initializes the value of the `respectedGameType` in the constructor but doesn't initialize it in the `initializer`. Since the `OptimismPortal` is a proxy and the `respectedGameType` is not immutable, this value will remain uninitialized and incorrect if the expected value differs from zero.

This implies that users won't be able to initiate L2-L1 withdrawals after the upgrade until the `respectedGameType` is updated with the proper value by the guardian.

## Impact
There are several possible consequences worth mentioning:
* If the expected value of the `respectedGameType` differs from zero, users won't be able to initiate the L2-L1 withdrawal for some time after the upgrade.
* Since the introduction of Fault Proofs is a long-awaited upgrade, it will attract a lot of attention. The necessity to perform manual hot fixes right after the upgrade might lead to some reputational damage.
* While the current impact is not severe, this bug could potentially become more exploitable in future upgrades.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L1/OptimismPortal2.sol#L88
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L1/OptimismPortal2.sol#L134
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L1/OptimismPortal2.sol#L261

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Consider initializing the value of the `OptimismPortal2.respectedGameType` storage variable in the `initializer` function instead of the constructor.