Noisy Pewter Woodpecker

medium

# Games exploited to self destruct will not allow withdrawals to be reproven

## Summary

Withdrawals can only be reproven in specific situations. If an exploit exists which allows a game to self destruct, it will revert during the checks on these conditions, and will therefore not allow reproving.

## Vulnerability Detail

When a user has proven their withdrawal on the `OptimismPortal2` contract, they are not permitted to reprove the same withdrawal again, so as to prevent the timestamp from increasing when the withdrawal is already proven.

However, in the event that the original withdrawal is no longer valid, reproving is allowed. These criteria are checked as follows:
```solidity
IDisputeGame oldGame = provenWithdrawal.disputeGameProxy;
require(
    provenWithdrawal.timestamp == 0 || oldGame.status() == GameStatus.CHALLENGER_WINS
        || disputeGameBlacklist[oldGame] || oldGame.gameType().raw() != respectedGameType.raw(),
    "OptimismPortal: withdrawal hash has already been proven, and the old dispute game is not invalid"
);
```
To summarize, we can prove a transaction if:
- it hasn't been proven before
- the old game has been disproven
- the old game has been blacklisted
- the game type has been updated

These checks do not consider a situation where the game has self destructed. While this may seem unlikely, the purpose of this contest is to ensure that the code surrounding the games is robust against all possible attack vectors, so it's important to consider this scenario.

Assuming such an exploit is possible on any future game, the result will be that `provenWithdrawal.timestamp > 0`, and therefore the checks will continue to `oldGame.status()`, which will revert if `oldGame` no longer contains any code.

## Impact

In the event that it is possible to cause a future game type to self destruct, the withdrawal will not be able to be reproven.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L1/OptimismPortal2.sol#L286-L291

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Because `provenWithdrawals` are indexed by `msg.sender` in the new Portal, there is no need to restrict the situations in which a withdrawal can be reproven. This check should be removed entirely to allow reproving to happen at any time.
