Calm Onyx Pheasant

medium

# When the respectedGameType is double-modified to the original value (A->B->A), the user can't modify the game proxy and thus can't complete the final transaction proof.

## Summary

When the respectedGameType is double-modified to the original value (A->B->A), the user can't modify the game proxy and thus can't complete the final transaction proof.

## Vulnerability Detail

In the function proveWithdrawalTransaction, user is allowed to replace the disputeGameProxy when the following check is met.

```solidity
IDisputeGame oldGame = provenWithdrawal.disputeGameProxy;
require(
    provenWithdrawal.timestamp == 0 || oldGame.status() == GameStatus.CHALLENGER_WINS
        || disputeGameBlacklist[oldGame] || oldGame.gameType().raw() != respectedGameType.raw(),
    "OptimismPortal: withdrawal hash has already been proven, and the old dispute game is not invalid"
);
```

However, this check is not comprehensive because `oldGame.createdAt().raw() < respectedGameTypeUpdatedAt` should be added.

Consider the following situation: 

Initially respectedGameType is A, then respectedGameType is modified to B, and finally respectedGameType is modified to A again. We know that respectedGameTypeUpdatedAt will the lastest block.timestamp. Therefore, although the old game's type is respectedGameType, the old game was created earlier than respectedGameTypeUpdatedAt. However, user can’t replace the old game with the new game as the incomplete check.

## Impact

User can’t replace the game proxy and final transaction proof will fail.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L1/OptimismPortal2.sol#L287-L291

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

```solidity
require(
    provenWithdrawal.timestamp == 0 || oldGame.status() == GameStatus.CHALLENGER_WINS
        || disputeGameBlacklist[oldGame] || oldGame.gameType().raw() != respectedGameType.raw() || oldGame.createdAt().raw() < respectedGameTypeUpdatedAt,
    "OptimismPortal: withdrawal hash has already been proven, and the old dispute game is not invalid"
);
```