Hot Stone Peacock

high

# Changing `respectedGameType` can permanently prevent an address from proving/finalizing a withdrawal

## Summary

If `setRespectedGameType()` is called to switch back to a previous game type, previously proven withdrawals with that game type cannot be re-proven or finalized from the same address due to the `createdAt >= respectedGameTypeUpdatedAt` check.

## Vulnerability Detail

`OptimismPortal2.checkWithdrawal()`, which is used in `finalizeWithdrawalTransactionExternalProof()`, contains the following check:

[OptimismPortal2.sol#L502-L507](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/f216b0d3ad08c1a0ead557ea74691aaefd5fd489/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L1/OptimismPortal2.sol#L502-L507)

```solidity
        // The game must have been created after `respectedGameTypeUpdatedAt`. This is to prevent users from creating
        // invalid disputes against a deployed game type while the off-chain challenge agents are not watching.
        require(
            createdAt >= respectedGameTypeUpdatedAt,
            "OptimismPortal: dispute game created before respected game type was updated"
        );
```

The require statement above checks that a `provenWithdrawal.disputeGameProxy` was deployed after `respectedGameTypeUpdatedAt`, which is the time when `setRespectedGameType()` was last called. Therefore, if a dispute game was deployed before `respectedGameTypeUpdatedAt`, it cannot be used to finalize a withdrawal.

However, it is not possible to re-prove a `withdrawalHash` if `createdAt < respectedGameTypeUpdatedAt`. In `proveWithdrawalTransaction()`, users are only allowed to re-prove a previously proven `withdrawalHash` if one of the following conditions are true:

[OptimismPortal2.sol#L287-L291](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/f216b0d3ad08c1a0ead557ea74691aaefd5fd489/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L1/OptimismPortal2.sol#L287-L291)

```solidity
        require(
            provenWithdrawal.timestamp == 0 || oldGame.status() == GameStatus.CHALLENGER_WINS
                || disputeGameBlacklist[oldGame] || oldGame.gameType().raw() != respectedGameType.raw(),
            "OptimismPortal: withdrawal hash has already been proven, and the old dispute game is not invalid"
        );
```

This makes it possible for a `withdrawalHash` to enter a state where it cannot be finalized, but also cannot be re-proven. 

For example:

- User calls `proveWithdrawalTransaction()` to prove a `withdrawalHash` with a dispute game of `GAME_TYPE = 1`:
  - Currently, `createdAt > respectedGameTypeUpdatedAt`.
- Guardian calls `setRespectedGameType()` to update `respectedGameType` to `2`.
- After a period of time, guardian calls `setRespectedGameType()` again to set `respectedGameType` back to `1`:
  - `respectedGameTypeUpdatedAt` is updated to `block.timestamp`.
  - Now, for `withdrawalHash`, `createdAt < respectedGameTypeUpdatedAt`.
- When the user calls `finalizeWithdrawalTransactionExternalProof()`, the `createdAt >= respectedGameTypeUpdatedAt` check fails.
- When the user calls `proveWithdrawalTransaction()` to re-prove his `withdrawalHash`, the call reverts as none of the re-proving conditions shown above are true.
- Therefore, the user can no longer prove or finalize his `withdrawalHash` with the same address. 

Note that it is not unlikely for a guardian to switch `respectedGameType` back to a previous value. For example, Optimism could switch to `PERMISSIONED_CANNON` to rely on the permissioned version of the fault game for a period of time, and switch back to `CANNON` afterwards to continue using the regular fault game.

Alternatively, the same state can be reached by calling `proveWithdrawalTransaction()` with a dispute game where `createdAt < respectedGameTypeUpdatedAt`.

Once a `withdrawalHash` reaches such a state, the only way to finalize the withdrawal would be to call `proveWithdrawalTransaction()` with a different address where the `provenWithdrawals[withdrawalHash]` mapping is new. It will never be possible to prove or finalize the withdrawal with the same address.

## Impact

When the guardian switches back to a previous `respectedGameType`, it becomes impossible for addresses to finalize and re-prove withdrawals that were previously proven with that game type.

This is extremely problematic for external integrations with contracts that call `proveWithdrawalTransaction()` or `finalizeWithdrawalTransaction()`, since they can only use the same contract address to attempt to re-prove and finalize the withdrawal.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/f216b0d3ad08c1a0ead557ea74691aaefd5fd489/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L1/OptimismPortal2.sol#L502-L507

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/f216b0d3ad08c1a0ead557ea74691aaefd5fd489/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L1/OptimismPortal2.sol#L287-L291

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

In `proveWithdrawalTransaction()`, allow withdrawals where `createdAt < respectedGameTypeUpdatedAt` to be re-proven:

```diff
        require(
            provenWithdrawal.timestamp == 0 || oldGame.status() == GameStatus.CHALLENGER_WINS
-               || disputeGameBlacklist[oldGame] || oldGame.gameType().raw() != respectedGameType.raw(),
+               || disputeGameBlacklist[oldGame] || oldGame.gameType().raw() != respectedGameType.raw()
+               || oldGame.createdAt().raw() < respectedGameTypeUpdatedAt,
            "OptimismPortal: withdrawal hash has already been proven, and the old dispute game is not invalid"
        );
```

Additionally, ensure that withdrawals cannot be proven with dispute games where `createdAt < respectedGameTypeUpdatedAt` by adding the following check:

```solidity
require(
    gameProxy.createdAt().raw() >= respectedGameTypeUpdatedAt,
    "OptimismPortal: dispute game created before respected game type was updated
);
```
