Mini Canvas Chipmunk

medium

# Guardian can override accepted valid withdrawals after PROOF_MATURITY_DELAY_SECONDS and DISPUTE_GAME_FINALITY_DELAY_SECONDS passed

## Summary
All withdrawals are finalized after a PROOF_MATURITY_DELAY_SECONDS and DISPUTE_GAME_FINALITY_DELAY_SECONDS  window (finalization period). After this duration transaction are confirmed and user can surely withdraw their balance.
But if guardian changes the `respectedGameType` then those valid withdrawals can no longer be finalized.

## Vulnerability Detail
This is similar to this [finding](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-optimism-judging/issues/75) in previous audits. This is the POC for this issue:
1. User A create a withdraw transaction (L2->L2) in block number X.
2. Someone creates a dispute game Y with corresponding `outputRoot`.
3. User A prove his tx by calling `proveWithdrawalTransaction()` and proving his transaction against game Y.
4. Dispute game Y finished with state `DEFENDER_WINS`.
5. After  PROOF_MATURITY_DELAY_SECONDS and DISPUTE_GAME_FINALITY_DELAY_SECONDS  seconds User A is sure that his transaction is finalized and he can call `finalizeWithdrawalTransaction()` and receive his funds any time he wants.
6. After some time due to some incident or update the Guardian changes the `respectedGameType` value.
7. Now User A can't finalize his withdrawal even so his withdraw was accepted.
8. In fact all the proven old withdrawal txs that was accepted can't be finalized and users have to prove them again.  This is incorrect and nullifies the network guarantee.

PROOF_MATURITY_DELAY_SECONDS and DISPUTE_GAME_FINALITY_DELAY_SECONDS  period is the time for raising any dispute and if finalization period is crossed then no matter what, transaction should be considered confirmed 

## Impact
Withdrawal will fail for confirmed transaction

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/f216b0d3ad08c1a0ead557ea74691aaefd5fd489/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L1/OptimismPortal2.sol#L500-L501
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/f216b0d3ad08c1a0ead557ea74691aaefd5fd489/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L1/OptimismPortal2.sol#L512-L515

## Tool used
Manual Review

## Recommendation
In function `checkWithdrawal()` when game type is not equal to current game type code should check `game.resolvedAt() + DISPUTE_GAME_FINALITY_DELAY_SECONDS < respectedGameTypeUpdatedAt` and if it's true it should allow this transaction to finalized.