Narrow Pearl Mongoose

medium

# Withdrawal proving and withdrawal finalization can be executed in two different `respectedGameTypes`

## Summary

## Vulnerability Detail

The `OptimismPortal2.proveWithdrawalTransaction` function performs the following check to ensure the game type of the dispute game is the respected game type.

```solidity
        require(gameType.raw() == respectedGameType.raw(), "OptimismPortal: invalid game type");
```

Here the gameType is retrieved from the `gameId` of the `dispute game proxy` as shown below:

```solidity
        (GameType gameType,, IDisputeGame gameProxy) = disputeGameFactory.gameAtIndex(_disputeGameIndex);
```

The `gameId` for this particular `dispute game proxy` is set during the `DisputeGameProxy.create()` function call and the `gameType` was passed in as an input parameter to the function call.

The `OptimismPortal2.finalizeWithdrawalTransactionExternalProof` function calls the `checkWithdrawal` function which again checks game type of the dispute game to be same as the respected game type, as shown below:

```solidity
        require(disputeGameProxy.gameType().raw() == respectedGameType.raw(), "OptimismPortal: invalid game type");
```

But here the `gameType` is retrieved from the `immutable variable` stored in the `disputeGameProxy` implementation contract which was set when the implementation contract was delpoyed as shown below:

```solidity
    constructor(
        GameType _gameType,
        Claim _absolutePrestate,
        uint256 _maxGameDepth,
        uint256 _splitDepth,
        Duration _gameDuration,
        IBigStepper _vm,
        IDelayedWETH _weth,
        IAnchorStateRegistry _anchorStateRegistry,
        uint256 _l2ChainId
    ) {
        // The split depth cannot be greater than or equal to the max game depth.
        if (_splitDepth >= _maxGameDepth) revert InvalidSplitDepth();

        GAME_TYPE = _gameType;
        ...
        ...
}
```

Hence there can be a discrepency between the two `gameType` values which are checked in the `OptimismPortal2.proveWithdrawalTransaction` functoin and the `OptimismPortal2.finalizeWithdrawalTransactionExternalProof` function.

## Impact

Let's consider the following scenario:

The `dispute game proxy` was created with the `respectedGameType` and it is included in the `gameId` and when the `proveWithdrawalTransaction` is called the withdrawal is proved successfully. 

But the `respectedGameType` is different to the `GAME_TYPE` immutable value which is stored in the `FaultDisputeGame` contract bytecode. But when this value is not checked inside the `proveWithdrawalTransaction` function and only the `gameType` in the `gameId` is checked.

And now the `respectedGameType` is changed to the `GAME_TYPE` value in the `FaultDisputeGame` contract.

And when the withdrawal is to be finalized the `finalizeWithdrawalTransactionExternalProof` function is called. The `respectedGameType` check is performed against the `FaultDisputeGame.GAME_TYPE` and the check passes.

Hence the withdrawal was proven against one `respectedGameType` and it is finalized against another `respectedGameType`. Since the different respectedGameTypes could have different implementations in the `FaultDisputeGame` contracts, this could lead to unintended protocol behavior. 

Further this breaks the invariant that the `The game type of the dispute game must be the respected game type` for the withdrawals that are proven. This occurred since the finalized withdrawal respected game type was different from the proven withdrawal respected game type as explained above.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L1/OptimismPortal2.sol#L257-L261

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L1/OptimismPortal2.sol#L500

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Hence it is recommended to maintain a single `gameType` in the `FaultDisputeGame` contract and both the `proveWithdrawalTransaction` function and `finalizeWithdrawalTransactionExternalProof` function should query that same value to ensure `game type of the dispute game must be the respected game type`.
