Bitter Ivory Baboon

medium

# DisputeGameFactory DoS due to incorrect extra data

## Summary

Extra data is utilized to pass the block number during the creation of a dispute game. If a game is instantiated with a block number that is lower than a previously resolved one, the game creation process will revert. Сreating a game with an intentionally inflated block number could potentially prevent the creation of new games in the future.

## Vulnerability Detail

Extra data passed to the dispute game is `abi.encode(uint256(l2BlockNumber))`, which is the L2 block number that the proposer claims that the submitted output root (the `rootClaim`) corresponds to.

```solidity
function l2BlockNumber() public pure returns (uint256 l2BlockNumber_) {
    l2BlockNumber_ = _getArgUint256(0x40);
}
...
function extraData() public pure returns (bytes memory extraData_) {
    // The extra data starts at the second word within the cwia calldata and
    // is 32 bytes long.
    extraData_ = _getArgDynBytes(0x40, 0x20);
}
```

Upon game resolution, the `ANCHOR_STATE_REGISTRY` is updated. If the game is resolved with the `DEFENDER_WINS` status, the block number is stored in the anchor registry state.

During the initialization of a new game, there is a check to ensure that the provided block number is greater than the one stored in the anchor registry state. If this condition is not met, the creation of a new game reverts.

```solidity
function initialize() public payable virtual {
    ...
    // Grab the latest anchor root.
    (Hash root, uint256 rootBlockNumber) = ANCHOR_STATE_REGISTRY.anchors(GAME_TYPE);
    ...
    // Do not allow the game to be initialized if the root claim corresponds to a block at or before the
    // configured starting block number.
    if (l2BlockNumber() <= rootBlockNumber) revert UnexpectedRootClaim(rootClaim());
    ...
}
```

Therefore, if an attacker successfully resolves a game with a block number value, for example, `type(uint256).max`, no new games will be able to be created.

Let's examine several scenarios that illustrate how this can be achieved:

1. There are several types of games, but only one type is currently active (respected) and can be used for the finalization of transactions. Users can create and participate in any of these games. Off-chain challenge agents do not monitor games of inactive types. Therefore, in the `OptimismPortal2::finalizeWithdrawalTransaction` process, there is a check to prevent users from creating invalid disputes.

```solidity
function checkWithdrawal(bytes32 _withdrawalHash, address _proofSubmitter) public view {
    ...
    // The game must have been created after `respectedGameTypeUpdatedAt`. This is to prevent users from creating
    // invalid disputes against a deployed game type while the off-chain challenge agents are not watching.
    require(
        createdAt >= respectedGameTypeUpdatedAt,
        "OptimismPortal: dispute game created before respected game type was updated"
    );
   ...
}
```

- Assume that `respectedGameType` is set to any type other than the dispute game.
- An attacker creates a dispute game with extra data containing `type(uint256).max`.
- Since no one is watching this game, it finishes with the `DEFENDER_WINS` status. The attacker may not even resolve the game at this moment.
- When `respectedGameType` is changed to the dispute game, the attacker resolves the previously created game.
- Transactions cannot be finalized using this game because its creation time is earlier than `respectedGameTypeUpdatedAt`. However, `type(uint256).max` as the block number still ends up in the anchor registry state.
- As a result, no further dispute games can be created.

2. Since the block number is not subject to validation during the game, an attacker can provide a valid `rootClaim` but extra data with an invalid block number and defend it.

3. Additionally, according to the rules for this contest, there is an assumption that `FaultDisputeGame` can resolve incorrectly (e.g., can resolve to `DEFENDER_WINS` when it should resolve to `CHALLENGER_WINS` or vice versa). There is a protection mechanism, and such a game should be blacklisted afterwards. However, an invalid block number will be set in the anchor registry state anyway.

## Impact

This issue prevents the creation of new dispute games.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/dispute/FaultDisputeGame.sol#L372-L374
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/dispute/FaultDisputeGame.sol#L401
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/dispute/AnchorStateRegistry.sol#L80-L86
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/dispute/FaultDisputeGame.sol#L528-L539

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

I do not have an exact solution. It seems like the design of storing the last resolved block number should be reviewed.
