Tame Orchid Snail

medium

# `OptimismPortal2` not initialized `respectedGameTypeUpdatedAt` will allow games created before the upgrade

## Summary

The `OptimismPortal2` uses the `respectedGameTypeUpdatedAt` to prevent games created before the gameType is respected.
The `respectedGameTypeUpdateAt` will be set to the timestamp when `setRespectedGameType` is called.
However, the default gametype is zero (CANNON), so before the guardian can set via `setRespectedGameType`, a malicious actor can use a game created at any time in the past.

## Vulnerability Detail

The `OptimismPortal2::initialize` function does not set the respected game type and the `respectedGameTypeUpdatedAt`.

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L1/OptimismPortal2.sol#L147-L162

It will result in default value (zero) for both `respectedGameTypeUpdatedAt` and `respectedGameType`.
The default GameType zero is CANNON.

```solidity
// Add to the OptimismPortal2_Test
    function test_not_initialized_respectedGameTypeUpdatedAt() external {
        uint64 updatedAt = optimismPortal2.respectedGameTypeUpdatedAt();
        assertEq(updatedAt, 0);
    }
```

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/libraries/DisputeTypes.sol#L104

As the result, users can use the CANNON game to prove their withdrawals as soon as the OptimismPortal2 is deployed.


But, per the comment in the checkWithwal function, the `respectedGameTypeUpdatedAt` is set to prevent using games deployed before the guardian is watching.

Since it is still set to zero, the `checkWithdrawal` will allow any game to be used.

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L1/OptimismPortal2.sol#L502-L507


For whatever reason, (for example testing), if the factory and game contracts are deployed before the upgrade of the OptimismPortal2, it may be a problem, since it may allow invalid withdraw to finalized.


## Impact

The unset `respectedGameTypeUpdatedAt` may let games deployed at any time can be used, therefore may result in finalizing invalid withdrwal

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L1/OptimismPortal2.sol#L147-L162

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/libraries/DisputeTypes.sol#L104

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L1/OptimismPortal2.sol#L502-L507



## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Consider setting the GameType and `respectedGameTypeUpdatedAt` at the initialize function

