Hot Stone Peacock

medium

# Leftmost claim incentives can be abused to steal bonds from honest parties

## Summary

Due to the leftmost claim incentive, players are incentivized to make an invalid attack to steal bonds from honest players that defend a parent claim.

## Vulnerability Detail

When distributing bonds for countered claims, `FaultGameDispute.resolveClaim()` distributes the bond of the parent claim to the leftmost uncontested child claim:

[FaultDisputeGame.sol#L450-L459](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/f216b0d3ad08c1a0ead557ea74691aaefd5fd489/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/dispute/FaultDisputeGame.sol#L450-L459)

```solidity
            // If the child subgame is uncountered and further left than the current left-most counter,
            // update the parent subgame's `countered` address and the current `leftmostCounter`.
            // The left-most correct counter is preferred in bond payouts in order to discourage attackers
            // from countering invalid subgame roots via an invalid defense position. As such positions
            // cannot be correctly countered.
            // Note that correctly positioned defense, but invalid claimes can still be successfully countered.
            if (claim.counteredBy == address(0) && leftmostCounter.raw() > claim.position.raw()) {
                countered = claim.claimant;
                leftmostCounter = claim.position;
            }
```

However, such a leftmost mechanism encourages players to make an invalid attack when their opponent's clock has run out.

For example:
- Assume that `GAME_DURATION` is 8 days, which means `GAME_DURATION / 2` is 4 days.
- The current game tree (w.r.t to [this diagram](https://specs.optimism.io/experimental/fault-proof/stage-one/fault-dispute-game.html#game-tree)) is:
  - Node 1 (created on day 0) has a duration of `0 days`.
    - Node 2 (created on day 4) has a duration of `4 days`.
- The current time is day 5.
- Assume that node 2 is a valid attack. This means that an honest proposer would be to defend against node 4, which would result in the following game tree:
  - Node 1 (created on day 0) has a duration of `0 days`.
    - Node 2 (created on day 4) has a duration of `4 days`.
      - Node 6 (created on day 5) has a duration of `1 days`.
- However, regardless of what move is made against node 2 (eg. attack/defend), the next claim cannot be contested time as the opposing party has run out of time (eg. if the opponent wanted to call `move()` to dispute node 6, they would not be able to).
- A attacker can attack node 2 instead to become the leftmost uncontested claim, resulting in the following game tree:
  - Node 1 (created on day 0) has a duration of `0 days`.
    - Node 2 (created on day 4) has a duration of `4 days`.
      - Node 4 (created on day 5) has a duration of `1 days`.
      - Node 6 (created on day 5) has a duration of `1 days`.
- Now, when `resolveClaim()` is called, the bond for node 2 is given to the attacker that created node 4, even though node 4 is an invalid attack.

As seen from above, an attacker can abuse the leftmost claim incentive to "steal" bonds from honest proposers by making invalid attacks.

## Impact

By abusing the leftmost claim incentive, attackers can steal bonds from honest participants in a dispute game, resulting in a loss of funds and broken incentives to play the dispute game correctly.

Note that in this finding, the dispute game does resolve correctly. The impact here is that a correct dispute game resolution can occur with a loss of funds to honest participants, which is not considered out-of-scope by this statement:

> Participants should assume that the FaultDisputeGame can resolve incorrectly (i.e.g, can resolve to DEFENDER_WINS when it should resolve to CHALLENGER_WINS or vice versa). Reports that demonstrate an incorrect resolution of the FaultDisputeGame are appreciated but will not be considered valid rewardable findings for this specific contest.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/f216b0d3ad08c1a0ead557ea74691aaefd5fd489/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/dispute/FaultDisputeGame.sol#L450-L459

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Consider using another method to distribute the bond of countered parent claims.