Recumbent Maroon Scorpion

medium

# Finalised withdrawal cannot be replayed when call reverts due to any uncertain logic errors.

## Summary
The `finalizeWithdrawalTransactionExternalProof(...)` will finalize the proven transaction and execute the call to the `_tx.target`.

Whether the `success` param is true or false, the OptimismPortal2 will make `finalizedWithdrawals[withdrawalHash]`as true.

## Vulnerability Detail
If the call to the `_tx.target` reverts due to any uncertain logic errors, the finalized transaction of the withdrawal hash can't be replayed.

***Proof of Concept:***
1. Let's assume a target contract on L1 has a function like this:
```solidity
contract Exchange {
            function exchangeETH(address to) external payable {
                    require(block.timestamp >= tradeStartTime, "Trade has not started yet!");
                    mint(to,msg.value)
             }
}
```
2. The user proves these Tx data to call the above contract from OptimismPortal2.
```txt
 _tx.target = address(Exchange)
 _tx.gasLimit = 120_000
 _tx.value = 1 ether
 _tx.data = exchangeETH(..)
```
3. The user finalized the transaction, and it is ready to be executed. But it has been executed when `Trade has not started on Exchange contract`. The safecall will revert to:
```solidity
require(block.timestamp >= tradeStartTime, "Trade has not started yet!");
```

4. Eventhough `success` is false, `finalizedWithdrawals[withdrawalHash]` is set to be true.

5. Hence, the user can't replay the transaction for the sake of logic errors or unintended mistakes. 

## Impact
If the failed withdrawal can't be replayed, the user may end up losing funds or causing any other damage.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L1/OptimismPortal2.sol#L336-L384

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Consider adding this snippet: If the `success` is false, set the `finalizedWithdrawals[withdrawalHash]` to false. 
```solidity
bool success = SafeCall.callWithMinGas(_tx.target, _tx.gasLimit, _tx.value, _tx.data);
if(!success) {
      finalizedWithdrawals[withdrawalHash] = false;
}
```

May Refer to Scroll by implementing fail-safe mechanisms on replaying messages.
https://github.com/scroll-tech/scroll/blob/develop/contracts/src/L1/L1ScrollMessenger.sol#L185-L190