Warm Brunette Tardigrade

medium

# A bad actor can make other users lose their fund for ever.

## Summary
The vulnerability allows unauthorized users to finalize withdrawal transactions, potentially leading to permanent loss of user funds.

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L1/OptimismPortal2.sol#L336-L384


## Vulnerability Detail

Since the finalizeWithdrawalTransaction can be called by any one and there is no check that the sender 
is the one who proved withdrawal in proveWithdrawalTransaction, an attacker could take advantage of this 
and make user lose his Funds for ever.

Imagine This Scenario: 

1) alice: initiated withdrawal on L2 and she passed `_tx.target` to her proxy contract.
2) alice: she calls proveWithdrawalTransaction and proves the withdrawal successfully but after that she Decided to update the Implementation of the proxy and she want to add logic into receive function.  ie: she added check if the ETH sent is less than 10 if yes it will revert.
3) alice: but alice specified 9 ETH on the proven withdrawal.
4) alice: alice now wants to initiate a new withdrawal on L2 with new `_value` like 10 ETH.
5) bob:   bob sees alice `_tx` information in mempool and he can see the `_tx`.target address.
6) bob:   now bob knows about the new logic that alice added in the new implement of `_tx`.target proxy.
7) bob:   bob now can make alice lose all her funds by calling `finalizeWithdrawalTransactionExternalProof`
       with her `_tx` and her address as `_proofSubmitter`.
8) bob:   now when it comes to this line: `bool success = SafeCall.callWithMinGas(_tx.target, _tx.gasLimit, _tx.value, _tx.data);`
       it calls alice contract with `_tx.value` of 9 ETH so it will revert because receive in alice contract 
       if ETH is less than 10 ETH reverts so now the call will revert and success will be false 
       and when it comes to this line `if (!success && tx.origin == Constants.ESTIMATION_ADDRESS)`
       due to the wrong logic: 
```solidity
// !success                                  -> true
// tx.origin == Constants.ESTIMATION_ADDRESS -> false
if (!success && tx.origin == Constants.ESTIMATION_ADDRESS) {
    revert("OptimismPortal: withdrawal failed");
}
```


now it won't revert with OptimismPortal: withdrawal failed" and `finalizedWithdrawals[withdrawalHash] = true;` is marked as true. 

## Impact

Now alice loses 9 ETH for ever, this is simple the amount of ETH could be much more.

## Code Snippet

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

add mechanism the check that to finalizer is the one who initiate the proven Withdrawal.
and fix the wrong logic of checking if call is success or fails.

```diff
-    if (!success && tx.origin == Constants.ESTIMATION_ADDRESS) {
+    if ((!success && tx.origin == Constants.ESTIMATION_ADDRESS) || !success) {
```
