Refined Juniper Copperhead

medium

# Lack of Check for Target Contract in Finalizing Withdrawal Transactions

## Summary
See below
## Vulnerability Detail
The `finalizeWithdrawalTransaction` and `finalizeWithdrawalTransactionExternalProof` functions in the `OptimismPortal2` contract lack a crucial check to verify whether the target contract specified in a withdrawal transaction is not the `OptimismPortal2` contract itself. Here's how the vulnerability manifests:
```solidity
function finalizeWithdrawalTransaction(Types.WithdrawalTransaction memory _tx) external whenNotPaused {
    // Missing check for target contract
    // Vulnerable code
}

function finalizeWithdrawalTransactionExternalProof(Types.WithdrawalTransaction memory _tx, address _proofSubmitter) public whenNotPaused {
    // Missing check for target contract
    // Vulnerable code
}

```
These functions are responsible for executing withdrawal transactions, which involves invoking a transaction on the target contract specified in the withdrawal data. However, without the necessary check, there's no validation to ensure that the target contract isn't the `OptimismPortal2` contract itself. This oversight could lead to potential exploitation.
- An attacker creates a withdrawal transaction where the target contract address is set to the `OptimismPortal2` contract itself.
- The attacker triggers the `finalizeWithdrawalTransaction` or `finalizeWithdrawalTransactionExternalProof` function with the malicious withdrawal transaction as input.
- Since there is no check to prevent the `OptimismPortal2` contract from being the target contract, the function executes the withdrawal transaction on itself.

## Impact
 If an attacker crafts a withdrawal transaction where the target contract is set to the OptimismPortal2 contract, they can trigger the execution of the withdrawal transaction on the contract itself. This opens up possibilities for recursive execution of attacker-controlled code within the withdrawal transaction context, potentially leading to unauthorized access to contract funds and state manipulation.

## Code Snippet
[OptimismPortal2.sol#L336-L384](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L1/OptimismPortal2.sol#L336-L384)
## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Include a check within the `finalizeWithdrawalTransactionExternalProof` functions to ensure that the target contract address specified in the withdrawal transaction is not equal to the address of the `OptimismPortal2` contract itself.
```solidity
require(_tx.target != address(this), "OptimismPortal: target cannot be this contract");
```