Refined Juniper Copperhead

medium

# Possible Gas Griefing in `unlock` Function of `DelayedWETH` Contract

## Summary
See below
## Vulnerability Detail
The `unlock` function in the `DelayedWETH` contract allows any address to trigger it, potentially leading to gas griefing. Gas griefing refers to an attacker manipulating gas costs to disrupt the normal functioning of a contract. In this function, an attacker could exploit the external call to manipulate gas costs, impacting transaction execution.
```solidity
function unlock(address _guy, uint256 _wad) external {
    WithdrawalRequest storage wd = withdrawals[msg.sender][_guy];
    wd.timestamp = block.timestamp;
    wd.amount += _wad;
}

```
The purpose of the `unlock` function is to mark an account eligible for withdrawal after a specified delay period. However, since any address can trigger this function, an attacker could deploy a contract or initiate a transaction with malicious intent. By performing complex computations, passing large amounts of data, or leveraging reentrancy attacks within the `unlock` function, the attacker can inflate gas costs for legitimate users.


## Impact
One potential impact of this gas griefing vulnerability is increased transaction costs for users interacting with the `DelayedWETH` contract. The excessive gas consumption caused by malicious transactions can deter legitimate users from utilizing the contract, leading to inconvenience and increased expenses.

## Code Snippet
[DelayedWETH.sol#L57-L67](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/dispute/weth/DelayedWETH.sol#L57-L67)
## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Implement gas cost controls and minimize gas consumption in external calls within the `unlock` function.