Hot Stone Peacock

medium

# Deploying dispute games with `CREATE` makes it susceptible to L1 re-orgs

## Summary

An L1 re-org could cause the dispute game deployed at an address to change, resulting in users executing functions on the wrong dispute game.

## Vulnerability Detail

`FaultDisputeGame.create()` uses the [clone-with-imutable-args](https://github.com/Saw-mon-and-Natalie/clones-with-immutable-args/tree/main) library to deploy dispute game proxies:

[DisputeGameFactory.sol#L105-L106](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/f216b0d3ad08c1a0ead557ea74691aaefd5fd489/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/dispute/DisputeGameFactory.sol#L105-L106)

```solidity
        // Clone the implementation contract and initialize it with the given parameters.
        proxy_ = IDisputeGame(address(impl).clone(abi.encodePacked(_rootClaim, parentHash, _extraData)));
```

`CloneWithImmutableArgs.clone()` [uses the `create` opcode](https://github.com/Saw-mon-and-Natalie/clones-with-immutable-args/blob/105efee1b9127ed7f6fedf139e1fc796ce8791f2/src/ClonesWithImmutableArgs.sol#L147) to deploy these proxies. As such, the resulting address of the dispute game proxy [depends on `DisputeGameFactory`'s address and nonce](https://docs.openzeppelin.com/cli/2.7/deploying-with-create2#create).

However, since the dispute game proxy's address is not dependent on the dispute game's arguments (ie. `_rootClaim`, `parentHash`, `_extraData`), in the event of an L1 re-org, it is possible for users or the guardian to execute functions on the wrong dispute game.

For example:
- Assume the following unfinalized blocks:
  - Block 1: 
    - A malicious proposer calls `create()` to create a dispute game with an invalid output root.
    - Assume this dispute game is deployed at address `0x123123...`.
  - Block 2: 
    - An honest challenger calls `attack()` on the created dispute game.
    - Guardian calls `OptimismPortal2.blacklistDisputeGame()`, to blacklist address `0x123123...`.
  - Block 3: 
    - An honest proposer calls `create()` to create a dispute game with a valid output root.
- An L1 re-org occurs, placing block 3 before block 1. The new order of execution is:
  - Block 3 is executed. The honest proposer's call to `create()` deploys a dispute game at address `0x123123...`.
  - Block 1 is executed:
    - The honest challenger ends up challenging a valid output root.
    - Guardian blacklists address `0x123123...`, which is now a non-malicious dispute game.
    
## Impact

Since the `create` opcode is used to deploy dispute games, an L1 re-org could change the dispute game that is deployed at an address. Therefore, the guardian and challengers could call functions on the wrong dispute game, which has the following impact:
- Since blacklisting a dispute game is irreversible, a valid dispute game could be permanently blacklisted.
- Challengers will lose their bonds for submitting a claim that disputes a valid output root.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/f216b0d3ad08c1a0ead557ea74691aaefd5fd489/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/dispute/DisputeGameFactory.sol#L105-L106

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Consider using `CREATE2` to deploy dispute games instead, such as with the [create2-clones-with-immutable-args](https://github.com/emo-eth/create2-clones-with-immutable-args/tree/main) library. This would make the dispute game's address dependent on `_rootClaim`, `parentHash` and `_extraData`.