Modern Sepia Wolf

medium

# wrong implement of  "findLatestGames" function.

## Summary
"_n" can be less than start ,there  is no check on that ,we will receive less than _n games.There is also no check on whether _disputeGameList array has "_n" games  or not.
## Vulnerability Detail
function findLatestGames(
        GameType _gameType,
        uint256 _start,
        uint256 _n
    )
        external
        view
        returns (GameSearchResult[] memory games_)
    {
        // If the `_start` index is greater than or equal to the game array length or `_n == 0`, return an empty array.
        if (_start >= _disputeGameList.length || _n == 0) return games_;

        // Allocate enough memory for the full array, but start the array's length at `0`. We may not use all of the
        // memory allocated, but we don't know ahead of time the final size of the array.
        assembly {
            games_ := mload(0x40)
            mstore(0x40, add(games_, add(0x20, shl(0x05, _n))))
        }

        // Perform a reverse linear search for the `_n` most recent games of type `_gameType`.
   @>     for (uint256 i = _start; i >= 0 && i <= _start;) {
            GameId id = _disputeGameList[i];
            (GameType gameType, Timestamp timestamp, IDisputeGame proxy) = id.unpack();

            if (gameType.raw() == _gameType.raw()) {
                // Increase the size of the `games_` array by 1.
                // SAFETY: We can safely lazily allocate memory here because we pre-allocated enough memory for the max
                //         possible size of the array.
                assembly {
                    mstore(games_, add(mload(games_), 0x01))
                }

                bytes memory extraData = proxy.extraData();
                Claim rootClaim = proxy.rootClaim();
                games_[games_.length - 1] = GameSearchResult({
                    index: i,
                    metadata: id,
                    timestamp: timestamp,
                    rootClaim: rootClaim,
                    extraData: extraData
                });
                if (games_.length >= _n) break;
            }

            unchecked {
                i--;
            }
        }
    }
## Impact
we will get less than _n latest game. If _disputeGameList array is empty and start is too high then we are wasting a loss of Gas.
## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/dispute/DisputeGameFactory.sol#L138
## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
function findLatestGames(
        GameType _gameType,
        uint256 _start,
        uint256 _n
    )
        external
        view
        returns (GameSearchResult[] memory games_)
    {
        // If the `_start` index is greater than or equal to the game array length or `_n == 0`, return an empty array.
        if (_start >= _disputeGameList.length || _n == 0) return games_;
    ++     if(disputeGameList.length==0||disputeGameList.length<_n)
      ++     return games_;
++  (start<_n)
  ++    return games_;


        // Allocate enough memory for the full array, but start the array's length at `0`. We may not use all of the
        // memory allocated, but we don't know ahead of time the final size of the array.