Glorious Mint Swan

medium

# The Proxy Admin Owner is not able to upgrade smart contracts that sit behind a `Proxy contract` as stated in the Q&A.

## Summary 
According to the contest Q&A the proxy admin owner is a trusted role that can 
* Upgrade all smart contracts that sit behind a Proxy contract.

This role is not possible as there is no mechanism implemented in the protocol to enable the Proxy Admin Owner do this.

## Vulnerability Detail
According to the contest Q&A the proxy admin owner is a trusted role that can 
* Upgrade all smart contracts that sit behind a Proxy contract.
* Set the implementation contract for any dispute game type within the DisputeGameFactory.
* Modify the initial bond cost for any dispute game type within the DisputeGameFactory.
* Remove ETH from the DelayedWETH contract.

These roles were all implemented by the developers `except` that the proxy admin owner can upgrade the smart contracts that sit behind a `Proxy contract`.

Looking into the `DisputeGameFactory` contract there is no implementation or mechanism put in place for the owner to carry out this role, leading to a situation where already deployed proxies cannot be upgraded to reflect the new intentions of the proxy admin owner.

## Impact 
As the  Proxy Admin Owner cannot upgrade the smart contracts behind the proxies, already deployed proxy contracts whose dispute games are still in progress will continue to run and resolve with previous (potentially harmful) implementations.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024-Oxdice91/blob/a2e558a5df21c63818191a876b7137dd4274a8ff/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/dispute/DisputeGameFactory.sol#L125

## Recommendation
A mechanism to upgrade the smart contracts that sit behind a Proxy contract should be added to the factory contract, to be used by the admin when the need arises.



 