Tame Orchid Snail

medium

# `AnchorStateRegistry` does not have the mechanism to invalidate game result


## Summary

The `AnchorStateRegistry` is used by `FaultDisputeGame` to get the starting point of the game. Also games for earlier block number than the starting point given by `anchorStateRegistry` cannot be initialized. As soon as the resolution of a game is reached via `FaultDisputeGame:resolve`, the `AnchorStateRegistry:tryUpdateAnchorState` will be called to update the most recent rootClaim.

According to the protocol, the `FaultDisputeGame` may result in an incorrect resolution, and that is why the OptimismPortal2 should wait for the delay to give the time for guardians to blacklist incorrect games. However, the `AnchorStateRegistry` lacks this mechanism.

## Vulnerability Detail

After a game is resolved via `FaultDisputeGame::resolve`, the function calls `AnchorStateRegistry:tryUpdateAnchorState` to update the rootClaim for the l2BlockNumber.

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/dispute/FaultDisputeGame.sol#L401

The AnchorStateRegistry will update the output root and l2BlockNumber, if the defender won and it is newer l2 block number.

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/dispute/AnchorStateRegistry.sol#L86

These updated information is used to set the starting point of newly deployed games.
Also it is not allowed to create a game with older block number.

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/dispute/FaultDisputeGame.sol#L529-L539

The problem is that if the game resolved for the newer block is actually resolved incorrectly, there is no way to update the anchor state. All the subsequent games will be based on this incorrect root claim.


## Impact

The AnchorStateRegistry might end up with incorrect rootClaim, therefore all the subsequent games will have incorrect starting point.


## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/dispute/FaultDisputeGame.sol#L401

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/dispute/AnchorStateRegistry.sol#L86

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/dispute/FaultDisputeGame.sol#L529-L539

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Add functionality for guardians to update the rootClaim and l2BlockNumber information.
