Merry Purple Barbel

medium

# A game containing the correct `rootClaim` cannot be restarted after a failure, resulting in the user's withdrawal being unable to be executed

## Summary

DisputeGame containing the correct `rootClaim` may fail in some cases. For example, no one defends against challengers. In this case, you need to create a new DisputeGame containing the correct `rootClaim` to allow users to withdraw. However, in the `DisputeGameFactory` contract, it is impossible to create a DisputeGame with the same `_gameType`, `_rootClaim`, and `_extraData`, even if the previous DisputeGame has ended. Therefore, withdrawals relying on this DisputeGame cannot be executed.

## Vulnerability Detail

```solidity
// https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/dispute/DisputeGameFactory.sol#L105-L113
        // Clone the implementation contract and initialize it with the given parameters.
        proxy_ = IDisputeGame(address(impl).clone(abi.encodePacked(_rootClaim, parentHash, _extraData)));
        proxy_.initialize{ value: msg.value }();

        // Compute the unique identifier for the dispute game.
        Hash uuid = getGameUUID(_gameType, _rootClaim, _extraData);

        // If a dispute game with the same UUID already exists, revert.
        if (GameId.unwrap(_disputeGames[uuid]) != bytes32(0)) revert GameAlreadyExists(uuid);
```

The user creates a new DisputeGame by calling `DisputeGameFactory.create`. Creating a new DisputeGame requires the user to provide `_gameType`, `_rootClaim` and `_extraData (l2BlockNumber)`. These 3 parameters constitute the UUID of this DisputeGame. If the UUID is already in use, the `create` fails.

However, every DisputeGame is a game and may fail even if the `rootClaim` is correct. Once the game contains the correct `rootClaim` it fails. Since this UUID can no longer be used, a new DisputeGame cannot be started with the correct `rootClaim`. This results in that withdrawals from this `rootClaim` will not be executed.

## Impact

User's withdrawals may be blocked.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/dispute/DisputeGameFactory.sol#L112-L113

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

For the same UUID, the same game can be created after DisputeGame fails.