Soft Pecan Frog

medium

# If the game resolution logic is wrong, there is no way to start game again in the same game type

## Summary
If the game resolution logic is wrong, there is no way to start game again in the same game type
## Vulnerability Detail
As the Context Q&A docs says:
> FaultDisputeGame resolution logic is not included in the scope of this contest. Participants should assume that the FaultDisputeGame can resolve incorrectly (i.e.g, can resolve to DEFENDER_WINS when it should resolve to CHALLENGER_WINS or vice versa). 

So if the game resolution login is wrong, the case will be the ```rootClaim``` is valid but the game results is ```CHALLENGER_WINS```.
In this case, the withdrawal transaction can't be proved and finalized.
If we investigate and change to the right ```FaultDisputeGame``` implemention (the resolution logic is absolutely right), we decide to resolve the same game again in the same game type.
1. set right implemention by calling ```setImplementation``` function in ```DisputeGameFactory.sol```.
2. Try to call ```create``` function in ```DisputeGameFactory.sol```.
We can see the parameter of ```create``` function is ```_gameType```, ```_rootClaim``` and ```_extraData```. ```_extraData``` is abi.encode(uint256(l2BlockNumber)), which is the L2 block number that the proposer claims that the submitted output root (the rootClaim) corresponds to.
So ```_gameType```, ```_rootClaim``` and ```_extraData```  is unaltered.
```solidity
Hash uuid = getGameUUID(_gameType, _rootClaim, _extraData);
```
```solidty
function getGameUUID(
        GameType _gameType,
        Claim _rootClaim,
        bytes calldata _extraData
    )
        public
        pure
        returns (Hash uuid_)
    {
        uuid_ = Hash.wrap(keccak256(abi.encode(_gameType, _rootClaim, _extraData)));
    }
```
From the code above, we can see the ```uuid``` is same as the first game. So the ```_disputeGames[uuid] != 0```.
```solidity
if (GameId.unwrap(_disputeGames[uuid]) != bytes32(0)) revert GameAlreadyExists(uuid);
``` 
The ```create``` function will revert because of the above code. So we can't resove the failed game again in the same type. The valid withdrawal transaction can't be proved.
## Impact
We can't resolve the failed game (because of wrong resolution logic) again in the same game type. The valid withdrawal transaction can't be proved.
## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/dispute/DisputeGameFactory.sol#L109-L113
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/dispute/DisputeGameFactory.sol#L125-L135
## Tool used
manual
## Recommendation
I can't recommend the migiration because the system is so complex.