Merry Purple Barbel

medium

# Redundant check in `proveWithdrawalTransaction` function may delay/prevent users from submitting proofs

## Summary

In the old version (referred to as OptimismPortalV1), a check were made to prevent malicious users from repeatedly submitting other people's proofs to refresh other people's withdrawal delays. The check is that unless the `outputRootProof` has been confirmed to be illegal, repeated submission of proofs for a transaction is not allowed.

In the new version (referred to as OptimismPortalV2), the proof submitted by the user is independent of the user, and it cannot affect the submissions of other users even for the same transaction. Therefore, the above check is meaningless for OptimismPortalV2. On the contrary, this redundant check may delay or prevent users from updating the DisputeGame for their transaction.

## Vulnerability Detail

```solidity
// https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L1/OptimismPortal2.sol#L269-L271
        // Load the ProvenWithdrawal into memory, using the withdrawal hash as a unique identifier.
        bytes32 withdrawalHash = Hashing.hashWithdrawal(_tx);
        ProvenWithdrawal memory provenWithdrawal = provenWithdrawals[withdrawalHash][msg.sender];
```

In OptimismPortalV2, `provenWithdrawals` is upgraded from `mapping(bytes32 => ProvenWithdrawal)` to `mapping(bytes32 => mapping(address => ProvenWithdrawal))` type. Each proof now using the `(withdrawalHash + msg.sender)` as a unique identifier. So no one can influence other submitted proofs. 

```solidity
// https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L1/OptimismPortal2.sol#L280-L291
        // We generally want to prevent users from proving the same withdrawal multiple times
        // because each successive proof will update the timestamp. A malicious user can take
        // advantage of this to prevent other users from finalizing their withdrawal. However,
        // in the case that an honest user proves their withdrawal against a dispute game that
        // resolves against the root claim, or the dispute game is blacklisted, we allow
        // re-proving the withdrawal against a new proposal.
        IDisputeGame oldGame = provenWithdrawal.disputeGameProxy;
        require(
            provenWithdrawal.timestamp == 0 || oldGame.status() == GameStatus.CHALLENGER_WINS
                || disputeGameBlacklist[oldGame] || oldGame.gameType().raw() != respectedGameType.raw(),
            "OptimismPortal: withdrawal hash has already been proven, and the old dispute game is not invalid"
        );
```

And this check code becomes meaningless. In OptimismPortalV2, `outputRootProof` is no longer provided by a single `L2OutputOracle` contract, but by many DisputeGames. In the past, when a user discovered that there was a new correct `outputRootProof` he would call `proveWithdrawalTransaction` again and immediately enter the new withdrawal delay (7 days). But now, the user finds that there is a more correct DisputeGame. Due to this check (`oldGame.status() == GameStatus.CHALLENGER_WINS`), the user must wait for the old DisputeGame to end (at least 3.5 days) before re-calling `proveWithdrawalTransaction` to enter new withdrawal delay (7 days).

Even worse, if the old DisputeGame has a logic bug (which is a reasonable assumption in this contest) that causes the DisputeGame to be delayed or unable to end, then the user will never be able to call `proveWithdrawalTransaction` themselves to update the new correct DisputeGame.

## Impact

The user must wait for the old DisputeGame to end before updating his withdrawal to the new DisputeGame that he believes is correct. Extreme cases, such as the old DisputeGame cannot be ended, and the user can never call `proveWithdrawalTransaction` to update the DisputeGame by themselves

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L1/OptimismPortal2.sol#L280-L291

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Delete this check. This check is a legacy from the previous version. In the new version, the proofs submitted by each user are independent of each other. Malicious users cannot refresh other people's proofs, so this chekc is meaningless. On the contrary, this check may delay/prevent normal users from submitting proofs.