Refined Juniper Copperhead

medium

# Users can be permanently prevented from executing a valid message

## Summary
The `OptimismPortal2` contract contains a potential issue where finalized withdrawals cannot be executed again, even if they were legitimate transactions that should be executed multiple times. This lack of reversibility in finalized withdrawals violates the invariant stated in the documentation, which specifies that users must not be permanently prevented from executing a valid message.

## Vulnerability Detail
In the `finalizeWithdrawalTransaction` function of the `OptimismPortal2` contract, withdrawals are marked as finalized once they are successfully executed. This is achieved through the following code snippet:
```solidity
// Mark the withdrawal as finalized so it can't be replayed.
finalizedWithdrawals[withdrawalHash] = true;
```
Subsequently, the `checkWithdrawal` function prevents the execution of a finalized withdrawal by reverting if the withdrawal has already been finalized:
```solidity
// Check that this withdrawal has not already been finalized, this is replay protection.
require(!finalizedWithdrawals[_withdrawalHash], "OptimismPortal: withdrawal has already been finalized");
```
While this mechanism effectively prevents replay attacks and double-spending, it also leads to the unintended consequence of permanently preventing users from executing valid messages multiple times.

## Impact
The lack of reversibility in finalized withdrawals restricts users from executing valid messages more than once, even when necessary. This can hinder certain use cases where multiple executions of a valid message are required.

## Code Snippet
[OptimismPortal2.sol#L357](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L1/OptimismPortal2.sol#L357)
[OptimismPortal2.sol#L518](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L1/OptimismPortal2.sol#L518)
## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Introduce a mechanism for resetting the finalized status of a withdrawal under certain conditions. For example, if a withdrawal was part of a disputed transaction that later gets resolved in a different manner, the finalized status could be reset, allowing the withdrawal to be executed again. This change would ensure that users are not permanently prevented from executing valid messages, addressing the violation of the stated invariant.