Clean Turquoise Chicken

medium

# The `depositTransaction()` function will often revert even when `_gasLimit` is sufficient because `minimumGasLimit()` is not calculated correctly

## Summary

The `depositTransaction()` function will often revert even when `_gasLimit` is sufficient because `minimumGasLimit()` is not calculated correctly.

## Vulnerability Detail

The `depositTransaction()` function has a check if `_gasLimit` is sufficient to execute the deposit. This way, can prevent depositing transactions that have too small a gas limit.
```solidity
require(_gasLimit >= minimumGasLimit(uint64(_data.length)), "OptimismPortal: gas limit too small");
```

Here is how to calculate the minimum amount of gas:
```solidity
    function minimumGasLimit(uint64 _byteCount) public pure returns (uint64) {
        return _byteCount * 16 + 21000; 
    }
```

`minimumGasLimit` function, using a flat rate of **16 gas** for every byte of calldata. But the gas cost for transaction calldata is differentiated based on the byte value. 
- For zero bytes are **4 gas**.
- For non-zero bytes are **16 gas**.

This means that when we have `data` with many zero bytes the calculation will be incorrect.

It will often happen that a user has set more than the required minimum amount of gas, but the function will revert because it does not calculate the `minimumGasLimit` correctly.
## Impact

`depositTransaction()` will revert often even when the user has set the correct amount of gas due to miscalculating the minimum gas amount needed.
## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L1/OptimismPortal2.sol#L412-L414
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L1/OptimismPortal2.sol#L210-L212

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Calculate correctly the minimum gas limit considering that zero bytes cost at 4 gas each.