Smooth Azure Canary

medium

# The `FaultDisputeGame.sol#step()` function is vulnerable to Front-running Attack.

## Summary
Due to weak access control in the `FaultDisputeGame.sol#step()` function, an attacker can steal all bonds from honest challengers that call step() function at MAX_DEPTH.
## Vulnerability Detail
At the max depth of the game, claims represent commitments to the state of the fault proof VM at a single instruction step interval. Because the game can no longer bisect further, when the honest challenger counters these claims, the only option for an honest challenger is to execute a VM step on-chain to disprove the claim at MAX_GAME_DEPTH.
If the counteredBy of the claim being countered is non-zero, the claim has already been countered and the honest challenger does not perform any action.

Otherwise, similar to the above section, the honest challenger will issue an attack step when in response to such claims with invalid ClaimHash commitments. Otherwise, it issues a defense step.
At this time, the bonds are distributed to the honest challenger. 
However, Anyone can call the step() function. Therefore, if an attacker finds an honest challenger's step() function in the mempool, he can front run it with the same parameters. Afterwards, when the resolveClaim() function is called, the bond is distributed to the attacker.
As a result, an attacker can steal all bonds from honest challengers that call step() function at MAX_DEPTH.
## Impact
an attacker can steal all bonds from honest challengers that call step() function at MAX_DEPTH.
## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/dispute/FaultDisputeGame.sol#L142
## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
It is recommended that the step() function be called only by honest challengers who participated in the game.