Old Shadow Wombat

medium

# Any user can claim credit for any arbitrary `_recipient` without their consent

## Summary
There is no explicit access control mechanism in place that restricts who can call the `claimCredit()`  function or who can claim credit for whom. The function does not check if the caller is authorized to claim credits for another user.

## Vulnerability Detail
- An attacker first identifies that his function allows a user to claim credit for another user by specifying the recipient's address.
- The attacker then calls the `claimCredit()` function, specifying any arbitrary recipient address as the `_recipient` parameter. Since there are no checks to verify the caller's identity or the legitimacy of the claim, the function proceeds to execute its logic.
- The function attempts to withdraw `WETH` from the specified recipient's address. If the recipient has a balance of WETH in the contract, this operation will succeed.

## Impact
An attacker could exploit this by repeatedly calling the function to claim credit for other users without their consent.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/dispute/FaultDisputeGame.sol#L630-L646

## Tool used
Manual Review

## Recommendation
To restrict this functionality, you would need to implement access control. This could involve using modifiers to check if the caller has the necessary permissions or roles to perform the action. For example, you could use a role-based access control system where only users with specific roles can call the `claimCredit()` function.

```solidity
    function claimCredit(address _recipient) 
        external 
        onlyAdmin // @audit Restricted
    {
        // Remove the credit from the recipient prior to performing the external call.
        uint256 recipientCredit = credit[_recipient];
        credit[_recipient] = 0;


        // Revert if the recipient has no credit to claim.
        if (recipientCredit == 0) {
            revert NoCreditToClaim();
        }


        // Try to withdraw the WETH amount so it can be used here.
        WETH.withdraw(_recipient, recipientCredit);


        // Transfer the credit to the recipient.
        (bool success,) = _recipient.call{ value: recipientCredit }(hex"");
        if (!success) revert BondTransferFailed();
    }
```
