Main Rouge Crow

medium

# Unrestricted Creation of Games

## Summary

Contracts that allow arbitrary user interaction, including creation of clones, need to ensure that restrictions are in place to prevent abuse.

## Vulnerability Detail

the contract DisputeGameFactory allows for the creation of Dispute Games. These games are associated with gameImpls via a mapping, which is acceptable. However, the issue lies within the create function, where there aren't enough checks and limits in place to prevent potential misuse.


## Impact

The create function allows for the creation of arbitrary games, with the provided game implementation, claim and other parameters. However, a significant problem arises from the fact that there aren’t enough measures implemented to prevent misuse of the function. For example, any user could potentially flood the contract with a large number of games, possibly leading to inefficient storage and processing, increased gas costs and, at worst, a Denial of Service (DoS) if the list or mapping fills up the available space to an unmanageable level. Additionally, this could provide opportunities for front-running attacks, where users with information about future transactions can manipulate the outcome of the games.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-optimism-2024/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/dispute/DisputeGameFactory.sol#L84-L107

```solidity
function create(
        GameType _gameType,
        Claim _rootClaim,
        bytes calldata _extraData
    )
        external
        payable
        returns (IDisputeGame proxy_)
{
        IDisputeGame impl = gameImpls[_gameType];

        if (address(impl) == address(0)) revert NoImplementation(_gameType);

        if (msg.value != initBonds[_gameType]) revert IncorrectBondAmount();

        bytes32 parentHash = blockhash(block.number - 1);

        // problematic line: arbitrary proxy creation
        proxy_ = IDisputeGame(address(impl).clone(abi.encodePacked(_rootClaim, parentHash, _extraData)));
        proxy_.initialize{ value: msg.value }();
}

```

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

To mitigate this vulnerability, implemented the following measures:

Access Control: Limit who can call the create function. This could be the contract owner or a trusted group of users.

Rate Limiting: Implement a mechanism to limit the frequency of game creation by each user or in total. This could include time-based restrictions or a maximum limit on games created per block.

Game Validation: Implement further checks to validate the game parameters and ensure consistent and fair game creation.

Bonding: The function can demand a security deposit for each game creation. Improper usage would result in the forfeiture of this deposit. This deposit can be proportional to the frequency of game creation, acting as a natural disincentive for flooding the contract with games.

